\documentclass[12pt,letterpaper]{article}

\usepackage{palatino}
\usepackage[linkcolor=blue]{hyperref}
\usepackage{fullpage}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{enumitem}
\usepackage{titlesec}
\usepackage[textsize=tiny]{todonotes}
\newcommand{\TODO}[1]{\todo[inline]{#1}}


\setlist{nolistsep}
\setlength{\parindent}{0in}
\setlength{\parskip}{0.15in} 

\titlespacing*{\subsection}{0pt}{0pt}{0pt}

\begin{document}
\begin{center}
  {\large CS 181 -- Machine Learning}
\end{center}

\begin{tabular}{r l}
  Instructor: & Finale Doshi-Velez \\ 
  Lectures: & Monday and Wednesday, 9-10:30am\\
  Location: & Northwest Building B103 \\
  Section: & 1:30-2:30pm Monday, 4:30-5:30pm Monday, 10:30-11:30am Tuesday, \\
  & 3-4pm Tuesday, 4:30-5:30pm Wednesday \\ 
  URL: & \url{https://harvard-ml-courses.github.io/cs181-web/}\\ 
\end{tabular}

\section{Course Description}

This course provides a broad and rigorous introduction to machine
learning, probabilistic reasoning and decision making in uncertain
environments.  We will cover provide an overview of three major areas
in machine learning: supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and
reinforcement learning.

Our learning approach will be conceptual, theoretical, and
practical. We will discuss the motivations behind common machine
learning algorithms, and the properties that determine whether or not
they will work well for a particular task.  You will derive the
mathematical underpinnings for many common methods, as well as
apply machine learning to challenges with real data.  

\textbf{Prerequisites}
The material is aimed at an advanced undergraduate level.  Students
should be comfortable with writing non-trivial programs (e.g., CS 51
or equivalent).  All staff-provided code will be in Python, and the
staff will not support questions in any other language.  Students
should also have a background in basic probability theory (e.g.\ STAT
110 or equivalent), and some level of mathematical sophistication,
including calculus and linear algebra (e.g., Math 21a and 21b or
equivalent).  We note that CS181 only requires portions of all of
these courses; Part I of \emph{Math for Machine Learning}, available
at \url{https://mml-book.com} reviews nearly all the prerequisite
mathematics.

Every year, many motivated students are successful in CS181 without
all of these prerequisites.  I want to continue to welcome those
hard-working students who are willing and able to independently fill
in any gaps that they might have in their knowledge.  \emph{That said,
  it will by YOUR responsibility to learn any prerequisite material on
  your own.  The course staff will not be responsible for teaching
  basic coding, matrix manipulation, etc.}

\section{Course Logistics} 

\subsection{Lecture, Section, Office Hours}

\textbf{Team} 
The CS181 team consists of a course instructor (responsible for the
content and grade assignments), a course manager (responsible for the
logistics of the course---posting things, managing exceptions, etc.),
and a large staff of TFs lead by a head-TF (responsible for section,
most of the office hours, and grading).

\textbf{Lectures}
Lectures will be used to introduce new content.  They will occur on
the board and will not be recorded.  During lecture, I may remind the
class about upcoming deadlines, clarify points in the homework, and
respond to questions about upcoming assignments and midterms.  Not all
of these interactions may make it to the class announcements.  Thus,
if you miss a lecture, we strongly recommend asking friends about
anything that was mentioned.

\textbf{Sections} Sections are optional problem-solving sessions, and
another great place to find study partners!  Sections will employ a
flipped classroom format, in which students will work on questions
that will be good preparation for both homeworks and midterms.  The
teaching staff will introduce the questions, assist students in
solving them, and wrap up with the solutions.  These solutions will be
posted.  Extended sections will cover the same material but with more
time for students to work on solutions.  \emph{The staff may post
  additional practice questions or pointers to other practice
  resources.  We do not guarantee solutions for these additional
  resources.}

\textbf{Office Hours} The office hour times will be posted on the
website.  Please make use of office hours!  In addition to getting
questions answered by the staff, office hours are also a great place
to find study partners and teammates.



\subsection{Materials and Resources}

\textbf{Textbook}
The textbook for the course is \emph{Pattern Recognition and Machine
  Learning} by Bishop.  It largely overlaps with the material in the
course, but not completely.  

This year, we also have a version 0.0 of course notes available at
\url{https://github.com/harvard-ml-courses/cs181-textbook}.  We
emphasize that these notes are due to the awesome effort of a past
CS181 student who decided to create a course textbook as a senior
thesis.  \emph{Expect errors.}  When you spot errors, be a good
citizen and put in a pull request.  We hope that this resource can
become the course textbook in future years.

\textbf{Course Website}
The course web site will be used for posting lecture/section notes and
links to assignments, and includes pointers to other resources we'll use,
including Piazza and Canvas.

\textbf{Canvas} 
The Canvas site will be used for submiting assignments, posting
grades, and sending announcements.

\textbf{Piazza} 
The piazza site for the course will be used for three purposes:
\begin{itemize}
\item \textbf{Content} questions are technical questions posted to
  other students.  (Please keep in mind collaboration policies when
  asking about code or solutions.)  The course staff will \emph{not}
  be responsible for immediate responses but will answer when
  possible; technical questions to TFs should be brought to office
  hours (or to section when appropriate).  

\item \textbf{Clarification} questions are posts about logistical
  details (Is there really class on XYZ holiday or is that a mistake?)
  or questions about homework phrasing or typos (Should question 1a of
  the homework be asking for the integral of $x$, not $y$?).  We will
  make every effort to respond to these questions as quickly as
  possible.  Tag clarification questions as ``clarification.''
  % Diego: Confirm that we have this tag 

\item \textbf{Private Message} There may be times when you wish to
  send a private messages.  These may include procedural things such
  as requests for additional time on midterms, additional late days,
  regrades; you may also have other concerns that you wish to share.
  We ask you to send those as \emph{private} messages on Piazza with
  the \emph{appropriate tag}: Regrade, Extension, Special Midterm, and
  Other.  We will be using these tags to make sure that the right
  people get your request.  We will \emph{only} consider procedural
  requests via this form (this is as much for you as it is for us: we
  want to have a record of all requests to hold us accountable).  
  
\end{itemize}  
 
Please note that Piazza is not a formally secure, private, or
confidential form of communication, and what you send may be seen by
the entire course staff.  If you have a sensitive concern for which
such a medium is not appropriate, then please catch Finale in person
before or after class or catch Finale/TFs at their OHs.  (Note, after
a conversation, we may still ask you to create a generic request via
Piazza so we have record of a promised extension, etc.)  Email should
be used sparingly if at all.

\section{Requirements and Grading}

There are four practicals, making up 30\% of the final grade.  There
are five individual homeworks, making up 30\% of the final grade.
There are two midterms, each counting for 20\% of the final grade. The
first midterm is on March 11 during class time, the second midterm will
occur on the last day of class (May 1) and will focus on the
material in the second half of the course.

Practicals and homeworks will be returned with grades and solutions.
Due to the volume of the grading, it may not always be possible for
the staff to provide detailed feedback.  It is your responsibility to
look at the solutions, identify gaps, and come to office hours to fill
those gaps.  If you believe there has been a grading error, please use
the google form above.  However, please note that a) we will regrade
the entire assignment, which may result in your total grade going up
or down and b) we will only allow one regrade request per problem.  

More broadly, we understand that sometimes life throws a set of
circumstances that impact your perfomance in the course.  Should this
happen to you, please let me or the course manager know so we can help
determine a plan to navigate a tough situation.  

\subsection{Practicals}

\textbf{Practicals will be done in teams of three.}
If needed, you can seek partners via Piazza. The goal of the
practicals in the course is twofold: to help you master the technical
material, and to show you how the techniques we are learning can be
used to build powerful and cool applications.  We call them
``practicals'' rather than ``homeworks'' to make the point that they
are meant to be open-ended and encourage creativity.  Practicals are
usually due two weeks after being handed out. Each practical will
generally be centered around a particular methodology and task and
involve programming. You will need to consider some conceptual issues,
write a program to solve the task, and evaluate your program through
experiments to compare the performance of different algorithms and
methods.

\emph{Your main deliverable will be a short report.}  You'll be
assessed on effort, the sophistication of your technical approach, the
clarity of your explanations, the evidence that you present to support
your evaluative claims, and the performance of your implementation.  A
high-performing approach with little explanation will receive little
credit, while a careful set of experiments that illuminate why a
particular direction turned out to be a dead end may receive close to
full credit.

\textbf{Collaboration Policy} Outside your group, you may not share
write-ups or code.  You may discuss your high-level approach (we
focused on feature engineering) and high-level results (we got 90\%
test accuracy). You must cite any sources used (online or otherwise.)

\subsection{Homeworks}

The homeworks help you practice the core concepts.  These involve
components that are theoretical and conceptual, and also require some
programming.  There will be five of these homeworks.  Homework
solutions must be submitted in LaTeX.  \emph{It is a honor code
  violation to look at the answer key if you haven't yet turned in
  your assignment (e.g. using late days)}.  \emph{It is also an honor
  code violation to look at solutions from the internet.}

\textbf{Collaboration Policy} You may not share write-ups or code.  If
you brainstorm with others, you must note their names in your
write-up. We encourage you to spend time thinking about and
understanding the homeworks on your own before collaborating with
others to practice for the midterms. \emph{Other than the preclusion
  of using answer keys, you can make use of textbooks and online
  sources to help in answering questions but you must cite your
  sources (and you should be ready to explain your answer to a member
  of the teaching staff.)}

\subsection{Late Days Policy}
Homeworks and practical writeups should be submitted electronically by
midnight on the due date, via the Canvas course website.  This is a
strict deadline, enforced by the Canvas site, so submit early enough
that you don't accidentally discover that your clock is slow.  Only
one submission is required for each team of students for the
practicals.

You have {\bf five late days} that can be used for homework
assignments and the write-ups on the practicals (note that the Kaggle
competitions will close a day before the practicals are due, and that
will not be extended).  Up to {\bf two late days} can be used on any
assignment.  Start early and plan ahead!



\section{Philosophy}

The goal of this course is to instill a strong technical background
for you to responsibly apply machine learning in the world.  Thus, in
addition to the derivations and the practicals, each class will
include a story about realworld applications of machine learning and
one full lecture and part of an assignment will be devoted to the
ethical implications.

To be blunt: Given the the increasing use of machine learning systems,
the users and developers of these systems must hold themselves to high
professional and ethical standards.  One can cause real harm by
pursuing a good cause via poor engineering choices.  Quoting one of
our favorite superheroes: with great power (to run any kind of
analysis) comes great responsibility (to do it properly)!

Relatedly, we expect all participants in this course---instructors,
staff, students---to be committed to a open, professional, and
inclusive environment.  Just like the maths, these qualities take
cultivation and effort.  I will start with the premise that we're all
decent people trying our best and encourage constructive feedback to
improving the course environment.

\end{document}
